---
layout: post
title:  "The Last 10% Part 1"
date:   2015-06-15 14:58:00
categories:
---

Solving problems can be an arduous task. When faced with a seemingly insurmountable problem, it is easy to walk away. Especially when working on a project for fun, the temptation to move “on to the next one” is high when the going gets rough. Through the process of working on a number of personal projects, I have struggled to find the best way to get past this problem. When there is nothing at stake, it can feel easy to give up. As proof of that, all you have to do is look at how many people starting gym memberships on a New Year resolution give up by February. The point is, when working on a passion project, it is important to learn how to get through those uninteresting parts to reach the end rather than leaving it unfinished.

When you feel blocked in the process of working on a project. It can make you feel helpless when all that time googling leaves you with more questions than answers. Do not despair, this is the part where the learning happens! When I started building my first web application for fun last summer, I felt completely lost. I had been programming for years, but often in school you are provided with boilerplate code that you only need to modify to complete the project. Additionally, you are given detailed project specifications that guide you through all the steps you need to follow in order to create the program. In a personal project, this is not the case. The benefit of this more difficult road is that you start to learn. When you take off the rails, it forces you to teach yourself how to get to the end.

Now, almost a year later, I feel back in the same situation. I am trying to dive into React and bite off as big a chunk as I can through another project. While the foundations of computer science and software engineering together make it easier to transition from one technology to another. It can be intimidating when you first dive into a new technology. All the foreign syntax and new rules that you discover through reading the documentation may seem terrifying. However, I have learned that the best way to get started is to just dive in headfirst. With idea in mind, starting writing code and refer to the documentation as needed. I have found that just learning through making is the best approach in this case. Just trying to read through and digest the information can be too overwhelming. I have found it is better to just learn through the failures and problems that come up as you work.

Building new things is an incredibly rewarding task. Every project, no matter how big or small, has given me a ton of knowledge. While the end goal may seem far off, every day working puts you one step closer. So when you feel down about the boring part of your project, realize that it is one small piece that will help you improve you in improving yourself.

This post was inpsired by Mayla Harp's work on her [blog]

[blog]: https://maylaharp.wordpress.com/
