---
layout: post
title:  "Why I'm learning React"
date:   2015-06-08 18:58:00
categories:
---

I was recently reading about React and how it compared to other popular JavaScript frameworks. Nowadays, it feels like they are a dime a dozen. It makes you ask the question, why should I learn this framework over the endless others out there? And that brings me to what I want to explain. Why did I chose React? There are a number of reasons for that. Would it be bad for me to say that it feels like it’s becoming more popular? Some people are constantly outraged at the concept of developers following the latest hipster technology in the same way that people chase the latest fashion trend. I feel that doing that is also self-preserving. Why would I want to learn things that are not gonna be widely used? I think there is definitely an importance in paying attention to what will be more useful technologies to know for future job listings in the future. Nevertheless, I think that there is more value to React than just it’s perceived popularity in the community.

Recently, I read an article by James Long about [why React is Awesome]. And it articulated reasons that made it appeal to me. Beyond the concept of how it “reacts” to your changes and does cool tricks to determine what gets updated, there are some compelling reasons for why React is an important new tool in your web dev arsenal.

1. React is unopinionated. It does not make any assumptions about what other technologies are in your stack. For a team with a more established product, this means they can transition to React by writing new UI component without disrupting their existing application. React serves a specific purpose in the front end development land and it does not try to be the framework to end all frameworks.

2. It’s testable! Testing anything on the front end has long been difficult to consistently work with. Since an interface relies on visual layouts and user interactions, it is challenging to find a good way to have solid test coverage in the same way that is expected on the backend. Facebook’s team has created a framework for testing React components in a familiar way to followers of the test driven development mindset through [Jest]. This is taking us one step closer to being able to work on the front end with the same confidence that everything will not break like a proper test coverage provides for back end developers.

3. The syntax of React enables teams working on a project together to easily collaborate with each other. The consistency that one has to write new components in React makes it simple to take a look at someone else’s code and parse through what exactly is going on. This has been a consistent problem with front end development due to the flexibility in the ways that certain things can be implemented. When working in any team, it is essential to be able to have consistency so someone down the road knows what your work was intended to do.

While these are only a subset of all the things that make React a compelling addition to your team’s stack. I hope that it provides a quick overview of some of the ones that seem to be exciting in the context of the front end!

#### References:

[Removing User Interface Complexity, or Why React is Awesome]

[Is ReactJS really fast?]

[Reactive MVC and the Virtual DOM]

[HackerNews]


[why React is Awesome]: http://jlongster.com/Removing-User-Interface-Complexity,-or-Why-React-is-Awesome
[Jest]: https://facebook.github.io/jest/
[Removing User Interface Complexity, or Why React is Awesome]: http://jlongster.com/Removing-User-Interface-Complexity,-or-Why-React-is-Awesome
[Is ReactJS really fast?]: http://blog.500tech.com/is-reactjs-fast/
[Reactive MVC and the Virtual DOM]: http://futurice.com/blog/reactive-mvc-and-the-virtual-dom
[HackerNews]: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=9638305
